---
layout: post
date:	2006-10-20 00:33:00
title:  The Murals of Bandipur
tags: [archived-posts]
categories: archives
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---
<DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>I wrote an article about the three artists who have executed some beautiful murals at the Bandipur property of Jungle Lodges and Resorts.

<lj-cut text=" If you are interested, click on this">


Jungle Lodges and Resorts, Ltd,&nbsp; a well-known&nbsp;government-owned chain of wildlife resorts all over Karnataka, has an excellent art initiative at </FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2>&nbsp;their Bandipur property.&nbsp; Three artists have painted, in authentic and realistic detail, murals of various fauna on the walls of each guest room.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>Amazed at the murals, I contacted the artists.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>The&nbsp;</FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2>first artist whom I met was Shakthi Prasad, a self-taught artist living in Gundlupet, &nbsp;who is executing the Dhole mural, after finishing the Sloth Bear and the Peacock. (The painting has been halted, pending fresh sanction for&nbsp;completion&nbsp;from the new M.D.)</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>Shakthi has executed various commissions, but no exhibitions.&nbsp;As long as he gets enough commissions to sustain his livelihood, he is happy. " I am working on a project with Ms Sunita Dhairyam, which will also involve JLR,", he says modestly.</FONT></DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>I then contacted Sangeeta Kadur, who  is also an avid wildlifer and birder. She has resolved &nbsp;to do only wildlife paintings.Since graduating&nbsp;from Chitra Kala Parishath,she has had a fairly regular stream of work, having done murals from the third year of her Fine Arts degree. She did one in the Chinnaswamy Stadium, ( a large Yakshagana face); one at Maiyya Caterers in Gandhi Bazaar, (a fibreglass mural of people cooking with friends!), one for a child's room in Whitefield,&nbsp;one in J P Nagar, and another at&nbsp;a Montessori School.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>Talking&nbsp;in detail about&nbsp;her Chital&nbsp;mural,&nbsp;meant &nbsp;learning the complexities of mural painting. After a lot of work with the software called Adobe Photoshop, the deer picture, a composite, was painted on a transparent plastic sheet and &nbsp;projected on to the wall, then painted with painstaking accuracy, using acrylics. </FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>Unfortunately,&nbsp; several trips to Bandipur to finish the mural meant that her overheads were increasing, so she stopped with the mural of the Chital, which itself took over 3 months to complete.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>&nbsp;Sunita Dhairyam &nbsp;has gone further with her work, with screen-printed curtains and bedspreads&nbsp;matching each of&nbsp;her murals. I&nbsp; met her at Mangala Village, near Bandipur,&nbsp;working on her project involving &nbsp;the villagers&nbsp; in silk-screen printing of wildlife souvenirs.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>Sunni is a colourful person who has lived and worked in three continents....she grew up in Zambia, studied in India&nbsp;,and then went to the US, where she&nbsp; started with various media, and&nbsp;executed theatre backdrops and murals in residences.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>An avid wildlifer,&nbsp; she returned to India and settled&nbsp;near Bandipur in 1995, working &nbsp;on reforestation as well. </FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2>To give&nbsp; Mangala a viable source of income, she has started a silk-screen unit, concentrating on the younger villagers. She hopes that the fabric, tee-shirts and other materials they produce will sell well. </FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>She is also working on an exhibition abroad, along with&nbsp;Shakthi, and a&nbsp;talented youngster from the village called Madhu.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>She worked &nbsp;for JLR in the early 80's, when TigerTops, as it was then called,&nbsp;first brought&nbsp;eco-tourism to Karnataka. She has fond memories of working with "Papa" John Wakefield, the grand guiding spirit of JLR.</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>Ms. Jija Hari Singh, the MD of JLR, was warmly supportive of the initiative started by her predecessor. "I am myself an artist," she says, "and with art, you </FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2>are in touch with your soul, your space, your spirituality."</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>So &nbsp;we may hope to see the murals at Bandipur completed,and perhaps we can see Art complementing Nature at the other resorts of JLR too! 


</lj-cut>

Three beautiful murals: (Photos by <lj user="sainath">

<DIV>Mayura, done by Shakthi Prasad</DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><A href="http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings/photo#4956421874654969874">http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings/photo#4956421874654969874</A></DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV>Chital, done by Sangeeta Kadur</DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><A href="http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings/photo#4956422279755202578">http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings/photo#4956422279755202578</A></DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV>Tusker, done by Sunita Dhairyam</DIV><DIV>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><A href="http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings/photo#4956422279884636178">http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings/photo#4956422279884636178</A></DIV>

<DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2>To view all &nbsp;the photos of&nbsp;the murals,&nbsp;taken&nbsp;by my friend and fellow-wildlifer,&nbsp;Sainath Vellal, go to his photosite:</FONT></DIV><DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT>&nbsp;</DIV><FONT face=Arial size=2><FONT face="Times New Roman" size=3><FONT face=Arial size=2></FONT><DIV>
</FONT><A href="http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings"><FONT face="Times New Roman" size=3>http://picasaweb.google.com/svellal/JLRWallPaintings</FONT></A></DIV></FONT></FONT></DIV></FONT></DIV>
