---
layout: post
date:	2008-09-23 13:12:00
title:  Dimples....
tags: [archived-posts]
categories: archives
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---
Recently, I have been looking at a lot of people with dimples, and realize that in my book of beauty, they are a welcome addition.... the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimple"> wiki entry </a> says they are considered attractive in "some cultures"...in which cultures are they NOT considered attractive, I wonder?

I have always wanted a dimple, and spent a lot of time during my years in school trying to acquire one with the help of a pencil thrust into my cheek and rotated; I didn't know that I didn't have the right facial musculature! No dimple resulted from all those persistent attempts....

 I gave up the attempt and told myself, in true sour-grapes fashion, "A dimple is an inside-out pimple!" ... and restricted myself to looking, with admiration, at those who did have dimples. Both cheeks (er, the facial ones) or one...to me it really does add  a great deal to facial beauty.

Dimples, in fact, are considered so much a beauty asset that many girls, particularly in north India, are called by this name. Who can forget <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimple_Kapadia">  Dimple Kapadia's </a>  debut as and in <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bobby_(1973_film)">  "Bobby" </a> , which had a generation of men drooling over her? (She also had a sister called Simple, but that's another story. Would anyone fancying the sister be Simple-minded?)

Funnily enough, though, a dimple in the chin (or call it a cleft chin, if you like), which is considered an epitome of manly beauty, has never attracted me at all. However, I have no opinion about <a href="http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_many_dimples_are_on_a_golf_ball"> dimples on nether cheeks </a>...but of course, dimples on the knuckles, elbows or feet of babies are always beautiful to see!

Dimples are also, apparently, very good for aerodynamics; <a href="http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_many_dimples_are_on_a_golf_ball"> this entry </a>  answers the famous question, "how many dimples on a golf ball?"

Trust science to take all the fun out of dimples by calling them "disambiguation"! :)

That was a smiley, but alas, without a dimple in it....!
