---
layout: post
date:	2009-06-28 20:03:00
title:  Milan
tags: [archived-posts]
categories: archives
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---
What will they do
When they meet again?
Walk quietly in the park.
Let the silences speak.
Hold hands in the dark.
Let happiness wash off the pain
Of separation.
Shed a  few tears.
Trembling, emotional,weak,
Speak of their fears
That their meeting would be too
Tough after the preparation.
Find each other the same.
Whisper each other's name.
Experience a little bliss
As they exchange a kiss.
Let one's joy pour into the other's heart
Erase the pain of having been apart.

<lj user="inspirethoughts">..how do you like my romantic verse? "mein shAyar thO nahin..."!

<lj-cut text="more about &#39;milan&#39;....">

To my non-Indian, non-Hindi friends...milan meets...meeting, not an Italian city! But the word carries all the emotions of someone finding someone else after separation..whether it's a lover, or God...the joy of becoming complete again, after the separation, is conveyed in that single word. There was a Hindi movie called "Milan", which had beautiful songs, and <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nutan"> Nutan </a> looked so beautiful in it...it's about the love between two people which cannot come to fruition because of their different social status...here's one of the lovely songs, where the hero (Sunil Dutt) teaches the heroine the song. 


<lj-embed id="72"/>


The confluence of a river with its tributary, or of the river with the sea, are also frequently used metaphors for this; that's why the image of the river is so powerful in this movie.

Here are the lyrics:

Mukesh: 
Hmmm.. 
sAwan kA mahinA, pawan karE sOr
Lata: 
Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor
Mukesh: 
Hhmm, pawan kare sor
Lata: 
Pawan kare shor
Mukesh: 
Arey baba shor nahin .. sor, sor
Lata: 
Pawan kare sor
Mukesh: 
Haan..
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor..
Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor 

Lata: 
Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor 

Mukesh: 
Raama gajab dhaae, yeh purwaiyya
Lata: 
Naiyya sambhalo kit, khoe ho khiwaiyya
Mukesh: 
Rama gajab dhaae, yeh purwaiyya
Lata: 
Naiyya sambhalo kit, khoe ho khiwaiyya
Mukesh: 
Hey.. Purwaiya ke aage, chale naa koi zor
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor 

Lata: Ooo
Lata, Mukesh: 
Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor

Lata: 
Maujhwa kare kyaa jaane, humko ishaara
Mukesh: 
Jaana kahaan hai poochhe, nadiyaa ki dhaara
Lata: 
Maujhwa kare kyaa jaane, humko ishaara
Mukesh: 
Jaana kahaan hai poochhe, nadiyaa ki dhaara
Lata: 
Marzi hai tumhari, le jaao jis or
Jiyara re jhoome re aise re jaise banmaa naache mor 

Mukesh: Ooo
Lata, Mukesh : 
Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor 

Lata:
Jinke balam bairi, gaye hain bideswa
Aaye hain leke unke, pyaar ka sandeswa
Kaali maat waari ghathaye ghan.ghor
Jiyara re jhoome aise jaise banmaa naache mor
Sawan ka mahina, pawan kare sor
Jiyara re jhoome aise, jaise banmaa naache mor

(It's the month of sAwan (monsoon)...the wind makes a noise..and the spirits dance like the peacock in the woods...

Rough Translation:

Oh, God,it's incredible, this eastern (monsoon) wind
Mind the boat, where are you lost?
No force can prevail against the PurvaiyA (monsoon wind)...the spirit dances ....

(W)The boatman seems to be signalling,
(M) The river current is asking, where do you want to go?
(W)It's your wish, take me where you please...the spirit dances...

(W)

(The wind) has brought news of  the love of those who have left their beloved and gone afar
Black, maddening, looming monsoon clouds...the spirit dances...


"milan" is often also used in the sense of sexual union, as in this song from "Abhimaan":



<lj-embed id="73"/>


Here are the lyrics, I will come back later and do the RT (Rough Translation):

Tere Mere Milan Ki Ye Raina
Naya Koi Gul Khilayegi
Tabhi To Chanchal Hain Tere Naina
Dekho Na
Dekho Na, Tere Mere Milan Ki Ye Raina

Nanha Sa Gul Khilega Angna
Sooni Bainyaan Sajegi Sajna 
Jaise Khele Chanda Baadal Mein
Khelega Vo Tere Aanchal Mein
Chandaniya Gungunayegi
Tabhi To Chanchal Hain Tere Naina, Dekho Naa... 

Tujhe Thaame Kai Haathon Se
Miloonga Madbhari Raaton Mein 
Jagake Ansuni Si Dhadkan
Balamvaa Bhar Doongi Tera Man
Nayi Ada Se Satayegi
Tabhi To Chanchal Hain Tere Naina, Dekho Naa...

(This night of our meeting
Will cause a new flower to  blossom ...
That's why your eyes are bright!

A new flower will bloom in our courtyard
(My) empty arms will look full, oh my love..
Like the moon plays in the clouds,
(the infant) will play in the folds of your saree
The little one will murmur...that's why your eyes are bright..

Stopping you many times, I will meet you in the intoxicating nights
Stirring the heartbeats of what's yet unheard
My love, I will fill your mind
(The little one) will tease you with fresh pouts..that's why your eyes are bright... 

Jaya Bhaduri and Amitabh Bacchan  are real-life couple, too; the pain of losing a child, and the imperative of a romantic relationship, to procreate, <a href="http://deponti.livejournal.com/538942.html"> that I have talked of </a> earlier, is expressed in this song...this song never fails to tug at my heartstrings. And it's a masterpiece of classical music, with the difficult "roopak taal" (7 beats).

</lj-cut>

Of the eight rasAs, shringAra rasA, or romantic love, is divided into two: yOga shring!r and viyOga shringAr: love in the forms of being together, and of separation.
