---
layout: post
date:	2010-06-07 00:41:00
title:  Crayola....
tags: [archived-posts]
categories: archives
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---
I first heard this lovely song on October 3, 2009, in Philly, when my friend's daughter Priya, and Mark got married, and her very talented younger sister and her fellow-singers sang at the wedding.

Here's the original by Kristin Andreassen, who wrote the song:


<lj-embed id="339"/>



Here is that younger sister (Sumitra's the one on the far left):


<lj-embed id="340"/>


(Sorry, the audio is pretty bad)



The lyrics are:

I went to see the doctor
I had come down with the blues
She said that I cant cure you but here's something you can do, take out a piece of paper and go sit down for a while and a draw a pretty picture of something that makes you smile.
I know what makes me happy I didnt have to think for long but when I tried to draw it, it always came out wrong
I had a box of 12, 48 and 64 but no where could i find that one shade I was looking for.

I guess I had realized it should have come as no surprise, crayola doesnt make a color for your eyes.
There is no way that i could possibly describe you
crayola doesnt make a color to draw my love

At first I thought of green-blue but than I saw blue-green and than again in bright light they look aquamarine i think at night their darker i looked again for you saw grey and black and when Im walking at the midnight blue but hues are the deepest skies would be a compromise

crayola doesnt make a color for your eyes
There is no way that i could possibly describe you
crayola doesnt make a color to draw my love

spring-green, spring-green is much to yellow
sea-green is far too pale
cornflower is way to mellow
so Ill try again and fail
theres no way i can capture the way you make me feel one look from you is rapture whether blue or green or teal no color qualifies that crayons telling lies

CHORUS

hey look its periwinkle so sure i got it now
But you wink and theres a twinkle in your eye and still somehow I just cant get that sparkle those glitter crayons wont. Maybe Glow-In-The-Dark ll get it right aw, no they dont
Mr. Crayola tries, but Im left to fantasize

CHORUS

For your eyes something darker lets see what I can find melted mahogany and got the depth not the shine just about gave up and then I peeled the paper off a little end of Really thought it coulda been ahh, not even Burnt Sienna!
Your passport says theyre brown, but Im gonna keep lookin round

crayola doesnt make a color for your eyes
There is no way that I could possibly describe you
crayola doesnt make a color to draw my love
crayola doesn't make a

crayola doesnt make a color for your eyes
There is no way that I could possibly describe you
crayola doesnt make a color to draw my love
no color to draw my love


Delightful song, and the clapping rhythm is so catchy! Caveat...the renditions on Youtube are less than optimal.
