---
layout: post
date:	2011-04-13 21:42:00
title:  Pun-jab....
tags: [archived-posts]
categories: archives
permalink: /:categories/:year/:month/:day/:title/
---
Thanks to <a href="http://tiger-tail.blogspot.com/"> Vittal </a> for these!

1. The roundest knight at King Arthur's round table was Sir Cumference. He acquired his size from too much pi.
 
 2. I thought I saw an eye doctor on an Alaskan island, but it turned out to be an optical Aleutian.
 
 3. She was only a whiskey maker, but he loved her still.
 
 4. A rubber band pistol was confiscated from algebra class, because it was a weapon of math disruption.
 
 5. No matter how much you push the envelope, it'll still be stationery.
 
 6. A dog gave birth to puppies near the road and was cited for littering.
 
 7. A grenade thrown into a kitchen in France would result in Linoleum Blownapart.
 
 8. Two silk worms had a race. They ended up in a tie.
 
 9. A hole has been found in the nudist camp wall. The police are looking into it.
 
 11. Atheism is a non-prophet organization.
 
 12. Two hats were hanging on a hat rack in the hallway. One hat said to the other: 'You stay here; I'll go on a head.'
 
 13. I wondered why the baseball kept getting bigger. Then it hit me.
 
 14. A sign on the lawn at a drug rehab center said: 'Keep off the Grass.'
 
 15. The short fortune-teller who escaped from prison was a small medium at large.
 
 16. The man who survived mustard gas and pepper spray is now a seasoned veteran.
 
 17. A backward poet writes inverse.
 
 18. In a democracy it's your vote that counts. In feudalism it's your count that votes.
 
 19. When cannibals ate a missionary, they got a taste of religion
